                               Message reference

Discovery beacon

  From: Mikrotik
  Verb: DSCV
  Args: 5

  A discovery beacon. Payload carries information about the device.

  1: software id
  2: software key
  3: device model
  4: device platform architecture (mips, mipsle, arm, ...)
  5: device firmware version (routeros release)

  Fields are terminated using 0x0a. 
  Warning! The message is terminated with 0x00.

Offering

  From: Installer
  Verb: OFFR
  Args: 1

  Installation offer. Optionally provides a new license key.

  1: software key, optional (blank if unset)

  Fields are terminated using 0x0a. 

Offering rejection

  From: Mikrotik
  Verb: NACK
  Args: 0

  Signals the license key was rejected for whichever reason. The device usually
  starts over, broadcasting discovery beacons.

Offering acceptance

  From: Mikrotik
  Verb: YACK
  Args: 0

  Signals the license key was accepted. The device now begins the installation
  process and signals the installer (STRT) once it is ready to proceed.
  The installer must acknowledge it received the message.

Start me up, please

  From: Mikrotik
  Verb: STRT
  Args: 0

  Signals that the installer should start sending the installation process on
  its end. The installer must acknowledge it received the message.

  Warning! The verb is NOT followed by the 0x0a field terminator.

Retrieve, retreat

  From: Mikrotik
  Verb: RETR
  Args: 0

  Asking for more information, acknowledging reception of data. Depends on the
  context.

  Warning! The verb is NOT followed by the 0x0a field terminator.

File information

  From: Installer
  Verb: FILE
  Args: 2 (0)

  Contains information about a file to be transmitted. If there are no more
  files, the number of arguments is 0.

  1: file name
  2: file size (in %d printf-style format)

  Fields are terminated using 0x0a. Depending on the context, the Mikrotik
  counterpart acts differently.

Writing terminated 

  From: Mikrotik
  Verb: WTRM
  Args: 0

  Indicates the device has finished writing and is ready to be rebooted (if not
  already rebooting on its own accord).

  Warning! The verb is NOT followed by the 0x0a field terminator.

Terminate

  From: Installer
  Verb: TERM
  Args: 1 

  Instructs the device to reboot. Optionally sends a message.

There are two more message types: drivers request (DRVR, sent by Mikrotik) and
drivers offering (OFDR, sent by the Installer). These are used solely in the
x86 PXE boot-up process to request additional drivers.

The following shame is followed when transmitting files.

  (1) We are sending an actual file, that is a fully fledged FILE message was
      previously issued and either

      (a) there are still bytes to be sent
          - send a chunk of those bytes in payload of the datagram
          - wait for RETR
          - goto (1)

      (b) we have no more bytes to send
          - send an empty datagram.
          - wait for `RETR`
          - if there are not more files to be sent, issue an empty FILE message
          - if there is a file to be sent, issue a fully fledged FILE message.

  (2) We are not sending a file, that is an empty FILE datagram was previously
      issued. We then wait for WTRM message.

